Add documentation for init flags (#926)
memgraph/docs: docs/how-to-guides/use-init-flags.md

---
id: use-init-flags
title: How to use init flags with Docker
sidebar_label: Use init flags with Docker
---

> With `init-file` and `init-data-file` configuration flags, you can execute queries from the CYPHERL file which need to be executed before or immediately after the Bolt server starts, respectively. The CYPHERL file, that the `init-file` flag is pointing to, is usually used to create users and set their passwords, so that no one except for the authorized users can't access data in the first run. The CYPHERL file, that the `init-data-file`is pointing to, is usually used to populate the database. If you plan to run Memgraph in Docker, then you have to make sure that the files `init-file` and `init-data-file` configuration flags are referring to are inside the container before Memgraph starts. In Docker, files can't be directly copied into a container before it's started because the filesystem of the container doesn't exist until it's actually running. However, you can tackle this by using a Dockerfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `init-file` and `init-data-file` configuration flags, you can execute queries from a CYPHERL file that need to be executed before or immediately after the Bolt server starts. The CYPHERL file the `init-file` flag points to is usually used to create users and set their passwords allowing only authorized users to access the data in the first run. The CYPHERL file the `init-data-file` points to is usually used to populate the database. 

If you will run Memgraph with Docker, make sure that the `init-file` and `init-data-file` configuration flags are referring to the files inside the container before Memgraph starts. Files can't be directly copied into a container before it's started because the filesystem of the container doesn't exist until it's actually running. However, you can tackle this by using a Dockerfile.
```

Reviewer: or mounting a volume?

Reviewer: link to config page

Author: Not possible with volume mount, but there is one other way, related to https://github.com/memgraph/docs/pull/924

Author: I will not be adding another way of running with init flags, because I experienced some issues and after syncing with Ante, we think it's fine to leave it as it is and update sometimes later if needed.

In this guide you will learn how to:

> - [**Use init-file flag with Docker**](#use-init-file-flag-with-docker)
> - [**Use init-data-file flag with Docker**](#use-init-data-file-flag-with-docker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Use `init-file` flag with Docker**](#use-init-file-flag-with-docker)
- [**Use `init-data-file` flag with Docker**](#use-init-data-file-flag-with-docker)
```

> ## Use init-file flag with Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the `init-file` flag with Docker
```

### 1. Create all necessary files

> First, create a directory called `my_init_test` and create `auth.cypherl` and Dockerfile inside it.

Reviewer: Where do I create this? On my local something?

> First, create a directory called `my_init_test` and create `auth.cypherl` and Dockerfile inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a directory called `my_init_test` with `auth.cypherl` and Dockerfile inside it.
```

> Here is the content of `auth.cypherl` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the content of the `auth.cypherl` file:
```

```
CREATE USER memgraph1 IDENTIFIED BY '1234';
```

> Here is how you should define a Dockerfile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dockerfile should be defined like this:
```

```bash
FROM memgraph/memgraph:latest

USER root

COPY auth.cypherl /usr/lib/memgraph/auth.cypherl

USER memgraph
```

> The above Dockerfile will build an image based on `memgraph/memgraph:latest` image. For other images, [check Memgraph's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph). Next, switch to user `root` to be able to copy your local file to the container where Memgraph will be run. Due to the permissions set, it is recommended to copy it to `/usr/lib/memgraph/` or any subfolder within that folder. In the end, don't forget to switch user back to `memgraph`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above Dockerfile will build an image based on `memgraph/memgraph:latest` image. For other images, [check Memgraph's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph). 

Next, switch to user `root` to be able to copy your local file to the container where Memgraph will be run. Due to the permissions set, it is recommended to copy it to `/usr/lib/memgraph/` or any subfolder within that folder. In the end, don't forget to switch user back to `memgraph`.
```

I'm confused with the last paragraph. You said in the first chapter we would not copy the file but use the Dockerfile... So I'm confused here why/how am I changing the user to `root` as I don't even have a container or running memgraph, what am I copying and where, and how am I switching back to memgraph

### 2. Build the Docker image

Open the terminal, place yourself in the `my_init_test` directory and build the image called `my_image` with the following command:

```
docker build -t my_image .
```

### 3. Run the Docker image

Once you've built the Docker image, you can run it with the flag `init-file` set to the appropriate value:

```
docker run -it -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 my_image --init-file=/usr/lib/memgraph/auth.cypherl
```

> To learn how to set the flags with other Docker images, refer to [configuration flags guide](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/how-to-guides/config-logs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check how to set the flags with other Docker images, refer to [the configuration guide](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/how-to-guides/config-logs).
```

how will this resource help

Author: It would be better to link to config reference guide again. I will fix this and let me know if it's not good.

### 4. Connect to Memgraph

To verify that everything is set up correctly, [run Memgraph Lab](/docs/memgraph-lab) and [connect to Memgraph](/docs/memgraph-lab/connect-to-memgraph). You'll notice that you have to connect manually and input the correct username and password. This happened because `auth.cypherl` file was run before the Bolt server started. You can also run the `SHOW CONFIG` query:

![memgraph-lab-init-file](../data/how-to-guides/memgraph-lab-init-file.png)

> Notice how the current value of `init_file` is updated to the path to the CYPHERL file inside the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how the current value of `init_file` is updated to the path of the CYPHERL file inside the container.
```

> ## Use init-data-file flag with Docker 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the `init-data-file` flag with Docker 
```

### 1. Create all necessary files

> First, create a directory called `my_init_test` and create `data.cypherl` and Dockerfile inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a directory called `my_init_test` with `auth.cypherl` and Dockerfile inside it.
```

> Here is the content of `data.cypherl` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the content of the `data.cypherl` file:
```

MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 21 AND v.__mg_id__ = 23 CREATE (u)-[:`HAS_ACCESS_TO`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 21 AND v.__mg_id__ = 24 CREATE (u)-[:`HAS_ACCESS_TO`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 21 AND v.__mg_id__ = 25 CREATE (u)-[:`HAS_ACCESS_TO`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 21 AND v.__mg_id__ = 26 CREATE (u)-[:`HAS_ACCESS_TO`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 22 AND v.__mg_id__ = 21 CREATE (u)-[:`IS_PART_OF`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 22 AND v.__mg_id__ = 5 CREATE (u)-[:`IS_PART_OF`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 22 AND v.__mg_id__ = 9 CREATE (u)-[:`HAS_ACCESS_TO`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 26 AND v.__mg_id__ = 7 CREATE (u)-[:`IS_STORED_IN`]->(v);
MATCH (u:__mg_vertex__), (v:__mg_vertex__) WHERE u.__mg_id__ = 26 AND v.__mg_id__ = 8 CREATE (u)-[:`IS_STORED_IN`]->(v);
DROP INDEX ON :__mg_vertex__(__mg_id__);
MATCH (u) REMOVE u:__mg_vertex__, u.__mg_id__;
```

> The above file holds the Cypher queries to create Identity and access management dataset which can be exported from Memgraph Lab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These Cypher queries will create the *Identity and access management* dataset available in Memgraph Lab.
```

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean with "which can be exported from..."

Author: To get the above cypherl user would have to export the db from Memgraph Lab first

Reviewer: maybe write exactly that?

> Here is how you should define a Dockerfile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dockerfile should be defined like this:
```

```bash
FROM memgraph/memgraph:latest

USER root

COPY data.cypherl /usr/lib/memgraph/data.cypherl

USER memgraph
```

> The above Dockerfile will build an image based on `memgraph/memgraph:latest` image. For other images, [check Memgraph's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph). Next, switch to user `root` to be able to copy your local file to the container where Memgraph will be run. Due to the permissions set, it is recommended to copy it to `/usr/lib/memgraph/` or any subfolder within that folder. In the end, don't forget to switch user back to `memgraph`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above Dockerfile builds an image based on `memgraph/memgraph:latest` image. For other images, [check Memgraph's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph).  Then, it switches to the user `root` to be able to copy the local file to the container where Memgraph will be run. Due to the permissions set, it is recommended to copy it to `/usr/lib/memgraph/` or any subfolder within that folder. In the end, the user is switched back to `memgraph`.
```

### 2. Build the Docker image

Open the terminal, place yourself in the `my_init_test` directory and build the image called `my_image` with the following command:

```
docker build -t my_image .
```

### 3. Run the Docker image

> Once you've built the Docker image, you can run it with the flag `init-data-file` set to the appropriate value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've built the Docker image, you can run it with the `init-data-file` flag set to the appropriate value:
```

```
docker run -it -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 my_image --init-data-file=/usr/lib/memgraph/data.cypherl
```

> To learn how to set the flags with other Docker images, refer to [configuration flags guide](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/how-to-guides/config-logs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check how to set the flags with other Docker images, refer to [the configuration guide](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/how-to-guides/config-logs).
```

### 4. Connect to Memgraph

To verify that everything is set up correctly, [run Memgraph Lab](/docs/memgraph-lab), [connect to Memgraph](/docs/memgraph-lab/connect-to-memgraph), and run the `SHOW CONFIG` query: 

![memgraph-lab-init-data-file](../data/how-to-guides/memgraph-lab-init-data-file.png)

> Notice how the database is already populated and the current value of `init_data_file` is updated to the path to the CYPHERL file inside the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how the database is already populated and the current value of `init_data_file` is updated with the path to the CYPHERL file inside the container.
```
